README.md, before:

# Jekyll Resume

## 1. Install Ruby+Devkit
(1) Use default options.
(2) Run the 'ridk install' step on the last stage of the installiation.
(3) check installation through `ruby --version`.  
(4) Install package via `gem install bundler`.

## 2. Install Jekyll
(1) make `Gemfile` to the root of your repo if you don't have and add these lines to `Gemfile`.
```ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'
gem 'github-pages', group: :jekyll_plugins
```
(2) Install jekyll via `bundle install`.

## 3. Serve my local Jekyll site for development
* Execute `bundle exec jekyll serve` in the root of repo.
* Execute `bundle exec jekyll build` if you want to build source files instead of running the website.


## option

### Update Ruby gems (dependencies)
Try `bundle update` periodically to maintain your Jekyll version up to date.
  
**When the upgrade of Gem fail even though the "bundle update" has been run**. RubyGems keeps old versions of gems, so feel free to do some cleaning after updating.
```ruby
gem list
gem outdated
gem cleanup
```

### Watch files
you can modify and test your site in real time with `gulp watch`.
you must run `gulp build` after revise files in `src` folder.
Install package.json via `npm install` if you don't want to install `devDependencies` add `--production` flag

#### Install node.js and gulp
(1) check `node --version`, `npm --version`, `npx --version` after install  
(2) `npm install --global gulp-cli` or `npm install --save-dev gulp-cli` 
(3) Create package.json file if you need in your project directory : `npm init`  
(4) Install the gulp packages in your devDependencies : `npm install --save-dev gulp`  
(5) check `gulp --version`

Commit message:

Update deprecated ruby gems, npm pkgs, gulp logic
build: tidy up build tool deps

Add gulp-cli as deps

Convert gulp script into ESM

Update style files and build script

Optimize assets

Use relative path for assets

Build with Gulp in CI

Upgrade npm pkgs

Turn off utf8 encoding for images

README.md, after:

# Jekyll Resume

## 1. Install Ruby+Devkit
(1) Use default options.
(2) Run the 'ridk install' step on the last stage of the installiation.
(3) check installation through `ruby --version`.  
(4) Install package via `gem install bundler`.

## 2. Install Jekyll
1. Make `Gemfile` to the root of your repo if you don't have and add these lines to `Gemfile`.
```ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'
gem 'github-pages', group: :jekyll_plugins
```
2. `bundle config set path 'vendor/bundle`
3. Install jekyll via `bundle install`.

## 3. Serve my local Jekyll site for development
* Execute `bundle exec jekyll serve` in the root of repo.
* Execute `bundle exec jekyll build` if you want to build source files instead of running the website.
* Try `bundle update` periodically to maintain your Jekyll version up to date.

**When the upgrade of Gem fail even though the "bundle update" has been run**. RubyGems keeps old versions of gems, so feel free to do some cleaning after updating.
```ruby
gem list
gem outdated
gem cleanup
```

## 4. Build & Watch
```sh
# Build src files as assets
npm run build

# Build, Watch and Run jekyll server for development
# You can modify and test your site in real time
npm start
```
